<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>A new standard of etiquette</title>
<link href="../Styles/chapterstyle.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3>A new standard of etiquette</h3>

<p class = "head">
Part of the goal of Algorithmic Rationalism is to introduce a
new standard of etiquette to supplement pre-existing ones
wherever the two are compatible and to supplant
pre-existing ones on whatever matters they are at
irreconcilable conflict.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
There are plenty of codes of etiquette that exist int he world.
Each one is generally written to serve various purposes, but
rarely if ever is assuring the primacy of logic, reason, and
evidence among those purposes.
When it is, it tends to at times be overshadowed by other
goals getting prioritized above it.
Even codes of etiquette written expressly for the purpose
of debate generally tend to strongly oppose rude or
disorderly conduct, but have few if any portections against
far more pernicious vices such as
the use of deceptive rhetoric.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Granted, sometimes it can be difficult to include protections
against such things in the debate's code of etiquette,
as doing so might deter parties who wish to indulge in
said unsavory behavior from participating in the debate.
However, if the target audience of the debate were to
strongly hold to a philosophy such as Algorithmic Rationalism,
that might shift the scales of consideration in favor of
including such provisions in the rules of the debate -
as the credibility of the debate might rely on it.
Similarly, it may in some cases even pressure a party
that would otherwise be unwilling to participate in a debate
in which logic, reason, and evidence have to actually be respected
into doing so - or at least force them to openly expose
unwillingness to try their views in the court of rationality.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
In addition to merely asserting the importance of
our codes of etiquette making logic, reason, and evidence
a higher priority, part of the effort in developing
Algorithmic Rationalism is the Rules of Discourse Project,
whose sole publication currently is the Discursive Compendium
of Fallacies and Malconducts.
This document (currently an early work-in-progress, yet
freely available as a Free Source project)
strives to provide clear criteria for discerning whether or not
a particular fallacy has been used, but also strives to describe
what is and isn't proper conduct for debate, or any discussion,
formal or informal, in a society that values rationality.
It, too, does not intend to supplant pre-existing codes of
etiquette - yet it does condemn invoking or enforcing
those pre-existing codes
in a manner that is at
the expense of the unhindered pursuit of truth.
</p>

</body>
</html>
