<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Basic Principles of Algorithmic Rationalism</title>
<link href="../Styles/chapterstyle.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h2>Basic Principles of Algorithmic Rationalism</h2>

<p class = "head">
Only one thing is sacrosanct in Algorithmic Rationalism,
and that is the conviction that
people ought to follow the dictates of
logic, reason, and evidence wherever they lead.
Consequently, there is only one thing that is taboo
in Algorithmic Rationalism, and that taboo is to
go against the one sacrosanct.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
As for the methodologies used in Algorithmic Rationalism,
the imperative to follow them is not a separate thing
from the one sacrosanct, but an extension of it.
This is because you are not truly following the dictates
of logic, reason, and evidence wherever they lead if
you violate the process by which these dictates are
followed.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
</p>

<p class = "reg">
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Very prominent among these methodologies is the one
from which Algorithmic Rationalism derives its name -
that being the use of razor algorithms to resolve matters
of uncertainty in logic and reason.
When it is uncertain whether or not a particular fallacy
or malconduct has been committed,
an algorithm can be devised whose outcome would
indicate the answer to the uncertainty.
These algorithms could range anywhere from a simple
razor question to an elaborate tree of several razor
questions.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Some such algorithms are contained in the
Discursive Compendium of Fallacies and Malconducts -
and while the algorithms there-contained are by
no means guaranteed to be perfect, they do serve
as a good example of how such algorithms ought to
be drawn up.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
While many people have come to think of algorithms as
part of the world of computers (and often think of
them as the nefarious constructs that internet media
companies use to manipulate people) algorithms are
not necessarily nefarious, nor are they necessarily
tied to computers.
These algorithms are not designed to
be followed by computers at all, but by human beings who
wish to come to as honest an understanding as possible
with regards to the solidity of reason and discourse.
</p>

</body>
</html>
