<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Expansion of what the term "logic" means</title>
<link href="../Styles/chapterstyle.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3>Expansion of what the term "logic" means</h3>

<p class = "head">
Algorithmic Rationalism also expands the idea of
what logic is.
Conventionally, logic is understood to be a study
of how to go from a specific set of premises to
a specific set of conclusions.
No responsibility is taken for the accuracy of
the conclusions of logic aside from them being
accurate in the event (however hypothetical) that
the premises are true.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Algorithmic Rationalism, however, refers to this
area of study as "Hypothetical Logic" - and though
we value it as a crucial part of the study of logic,
we see the need to expand the understanding of what
"logic" means to encompass also a separate area
known as "Premise Theory".
Premise Theory is the study of how to go about
properly acquiring premises for use in logic
as well as discerning what level of confidence to
place in the premises thus derived.
Granted - even Premise Theory can not guarantee
the accuracy of the premises that one obtains
or of the conclusions that are drawn from said
premises.
However, if Premise Theory is properly developed
and then properly applied, it will nonetheless
increase the level of reliability of the premises,
even if not to the level of absolute certainty.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Such an expansion of what is understood by he term
"logic" is no doubt bound to be controversial.
Critics of such an expansion might contend
that even if the study of Premise Theory
must be undertaken,
it shoudln't be regarded as part of the study
of logic itself.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
However, as controversial as it may be to expand
the understanding of what "logic" means in such manner,
this position is nonetheless defensible.
Part of the reason for this expansion is because it is
at long last catching-up the understanding of what "logic"
means from one that is congruent with so-called
"Continental Rationalism", the old style of Rationalism
that eschews empiricism, with the more modern style
of rationalism known as "English Rationalism" (despite
not being at all exclusive to England or even the
English-speaking world) which incorporates
empiricism into rationalism.
However, this congruity update is not the only reason
for expanding this understanding of what "logic"
means.
It is also necessary because without the study of Premise Theory,
the sound development of even Hypothetical Logic
beyond the realm of its purely symbolic form
can not be undertaken in a sound and useful manner.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Many scholars divide fallacies into two categories -
formal and informal.
Formal fallacies are flaws in an argument's structure
that are reducable to a symbolic form.
Informal fallacies, however, are flawed patterns of
reasoning that generally aren't reducable to a form
that can be expressed in the language of symbolic logic.
When you are studying symbolic logic, the formal
fallacies are the only fallacies that you have any
need to be weary of.
However, the moment you expand your study of logic
beyond the purely symbolic realm,
there immediately appears the need to be vigilant
against informal fallacies in even the simplest
of arguments.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
And unlike with formal fallacies, it is very often
impossible to distinguish an informal fallacy from
a closely related cogency without resorting to
the application of Premise Theory.
For example, how else can you distinguish an instance
of the False Dilemma Fallacy from an instance from
the True Dilemma Cogency?
How else can an instance of the Appeal to Consequences
Fallacy be distinguished from a cogent form of inverse proof?
</p>

<p class = "reg">
In theory one could suggest resolving such an issue by
adding every ontological claim on which the cogency
of an argument pattern hinges to the list of
an argument's conditionals.
However, in reality, if this were truly done with
consistency, this would result in a practice
so unwieldy that at best even a highly intelligent person
would have difficulty practicing it in an ivory-tower
setting - let alone a far cry from the goal of
Algorithmic Rationalsim, which is a system that
even ordinary people can learn to practice in
everyday settings.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
One might resolve this unwieldiness with the short cut
of accepting ontological claims that the cogency of
certain parts of the argument hinge on without adding
them to the list of the argument's conditionals if
said ontological claims are sufficiently obvious.
This shotrt cut can seem irresistible considering how
overwhelming a list of conditionals can become for even
a relatively simple argument.
However, such an acceptance of even the most obvious
ontological claims without
a methodology of doing so (i.e. Premise Theory)
is a very self-deceptive practice that severely compromises
the very integrity of one's study of logic.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
It is much better to accept that any study of logic
that ventures beyond the realm of mere symbolic logic
must necessarily incorporate the study of Premise Theory.
</p>

</body>
</html>
