<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>The Post-Truth Society</title>
<link href="../Styles/chapterstyle.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3>The Post-Truth Society</h3>

<p class = "head">
We are living in what is often referred to
as a "post-truth society" - a society in which regard for
whether or not an assertion conformed to objective reality
is at dangerously low levels.
As a matter of fact, regard for this is so low, that
many people go so far as to dismiss its very existence -
believing that the truth is whatever you can convince
enough people of, or whatever you hold as a heartfelt
belief.
Not uncommon, as a matter of fact, is the
belief that consciousness is a precursor of
the material world rather than the other way
around - a view that not only lacks regard for
what exists in objective reality, but which
outright denies its existence.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Of course - this view is scientifically unfathomable,
but in a world that many people believe to be less than
fifteen-thousand years old (typically just above
six-thousand years old) despite overwhelming scientific
evidence that it is actually a few billion years old -
few people are going to let scientific unfathomability
get in the way of what they wish to hold as doctrine.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Efforts to champion the existence of objective reality
are often met with derision, with accusations of elitism.
These accusations of elitism are often based partially
on the perception that the one championing
its existence believes zirself to have a complete knowledge
of what is in that objective reality -
or at least an understanding that is partial, yet authoritative.
This perception is, of course, a straw-figure assertion -
as championing that objective reality exists does not
constitute asserting one's self as an infallible authority
of its contents.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
This wonton disregard for objective reality has
resulted in the shutdown of public discourse that
has for a long time been regarded as essential to
the democratic process.
Granted, the process has always been flawed, having
not only fallen short of perfection, but also fallen
significantly short of what realistically ought to
be the best possible for.
But even those shortcomings were as a result of it
having being hindered by the precursor of the very
phenomena
that in these days are shutting it down entirely
- that being a disregard for objective reality that, though not
always as extreme as it is today, has infected human history
as far back as can be verified.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Part of this reason for the shutdown in public discourse
is that, often, the two sides can no longer agree on any
common basis for discussion.
Without the acknowledgement of a common, objective reality,
it is impossible for people of differing opinions to
investigate what actually exists in that reality.
As a result, the resolution of "agree to disagree", a resolution
which in a sane society would be reserved only for disagreements
whose resolution defies the current ability to resolve by
investigation, is instead often lauded as the pinnacle of maturity
for all disagreements, no matter how realistic it is to verify
which of the statements, if any, is the correct one.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Therefore, instead of submitting to the authority of objective
reality when an answer to the disagreement can be discovered,
and "agreeing to disagree" when no answer can be discovered -
the modus operandi has become to "agree to disagree" on matters
for which stakes and emotional vesture are low,
and sheer hostility when one or both sides has significant stakes
or emotional vesture in their position.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
When high stakes or emotional vesture cause someone to be
so inflexible on their ideas as to cause this hostility,
this decision is often justified either by fallacious reasoning
that could be spotted a mile away by any well-trained Rationalist,
or by an all-out dismissal of the importance of reason.
This is done even if the opinion in question just so happens to
be a correct one that could just as well have been backed by
sound reason and evidence - because so low has the regard for
objective reality sunk that such correct views are more frequently
stumbled upon by sheer dumb luck than arrived at by the sound
methodology of reason and evidence.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
</p>

</body>
</html>
