<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Historical context of Algorithmic Rationalism</title>
<link href="../Styles/chapterstyle.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h2>Historical context of Algorithmic Rationalism</h2>

<p class = "head">
A few words are needed here of the historical context
of our times, the times in which
Algorithmic Rationalism was developed.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
We are living in what is often referred to
as a "post-truth society" - a society in which regard for
whether or not an assertion conformed to objective reality
is at dangerously low levels.
As a matter of fact, regard for this is so low, that
many people go so far as to dismiss its very existence -
believing that the truth is whatever you can convince
enough people of, or whatever you hold as a heartfelt
belief.
Not uncommon, as a matter of fact, is the
belief that consciousness is a precursor of
the material world rather than the other way
around - a view that not only lacks regard for
what exists in objective reality, but which
outright denies its existence.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Of course - this view is scientifically unfathomable,
but in a world that many people believe to be less than
fifteen-thousand years old (typically just above
six-thousand years old) despite overwhelming scientific
evidence that it is actually a few billion years old -
few people are going to let scientific unfathomability
get in the way of what they wish to hold as doctrine.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Efforts to champion the existence of objective reality
are often met with derision, with accusations of elitism.
These accusations of elitism are often based partially
on the perception that the one championing
its existence believes zirself to have a complete knowledge
of what is in that objective reality -
or at least an understanding that is partial, yet authoritative.
This perception is, of course, a straw-figure assertion -
as championing that objective reality exists does not
constitute asserting one's self as an infallible authority
of its contents.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
</p>

<p class = "reg">
</p>

<p class = "reg">
</p>

<p class = "reg">
</p>

</body>
</html>
