<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>The Echo Chambers</title>
<link href="../Styles/chapterstyle.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3>The Echo Chambers</h3>

<p class = "head">
In an environment in which the overwhelming majority of people
have such disregard for objective reality, there is often
no standard by which to resolve disagreements.
Therefore, discussion on matters
in which either side or both sides have high stakes or strong
emotional vesture tend to devolve into blatant hostility.
This hostility often escalates to the point that lines of communications
between people who disagree are ruptured, forming enclaves of people
whose commonality is defined by their agreement on certain issues.
These enclaves are referred to commonly as "echo chambers".
</p>

<p class = "reg">
In this environment, very few people still care for reason and
evidence and sound discourse that values these things.
A few people, however, do have regard for objective reality
and do indeed care about these tools for investigating it.
However, those people, too, tend to be trapped in echo chambers.
These people wish to have rational dialogue on important subjects,
but lack any partner with which to have such rational dialogue.
Even though potential such partners exist, connecting with them can be
difficult.
Such Rationalists may attempt to hold open the channels of communication
through which to communicate with fellow Rationalists of differeng
sociopolitical persuasion - but run the risk of their good will being
taken advantage by non-Rationalists who fail to discern the distinction
between an invitation to rational dialogue versus an invitaion to
launch an assault of rationally-empty rhetoric.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
When the preservation of such channels is far more often used
by those who seek to take the advantage of the good will behind
them in effort to promote rhetoric than by fellow rationalists
of differing sociopolitical persuasion who come for the genuine
purpose of discussing the differences in persuasion in the same spirit
for which the channels are kept open - the Rationalist is left
with limited ways in which to respond.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Some Rationalists decide to engage the hostile visitor in debate
the same way that they would debate a visitor of good will.
This approach, however, can be extremely frustrating, and not
particularly fruitful, as the Irrationalists lack the necessary
regard or skills in logic and reason to present a convincing case
by such means if they happen to be correct or to accept correction
if such tools prove them to be in error.
Debating them has been described as playing Chess with pigeons
- the idea being that they knock over the pieces, defacate on
the board, and then claim victory for themselves.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
The maintainers of the channels of debate have responded to this
abuse in various ways.
Some of them have indulged in the mockery of debate up to the
point of exhaustion, upon which they either let the propagandist
present as victorious.
At times, it has even been alleged that engaging a known distorter
of logic and reason in debate even runs the risk of granting
validation to a methodology of argument that deserves no such
validation.
The most notable recipient of this criticism is Bill Nye for his
decision to participate in a debate against the Creationist,
Ken Ham.
However, surely Bill Nye is not the only one against whom such
criticism could be directed.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Others have either directly shut down the channels of debate
due to exhaustion responding to them being abused.
Still others, while not directly shutting down the channels,
effectively did so by declaring certain positions to be taboo.
While it is difficult to judge them in any way sharshly for folding
in such ways to such intense pressure, it would be better if they
had a way to bann the underhanded means by which the propagandists
advanced their views rather than to bann the views themselves.
</p>

</body>
</html>

