<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Relation to religion</title>
<link href="../Styles/chapterstyle.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3>Relation to religion</h3>

<p class = "head">
As with most schools of Rationalism, the reigning theory on the
God question is atheism.
The existence of a Creator God is not seen as altogether impossible
but as highly improbable - and of an Interventionist God even more
imporbable.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
That said - this reigning theory is not imposed as a requirement
in Algorithmic Rationalism.
On the other hand, this theory is not to be casually disregarded on the
basis of some alternative being more emotionally satisfying,
socially convenient, or politically convenient to believe.
The actual position on how Algorithmic Rationalists ought to
answer the God question is more nuanced than either of those
two extremes.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
There is only one sacrosanct in Algorithmic Rationalism - the commitment
to follow the dictates of logic, reason, and evidence wherever they lead.
This one sacrosanct does not contain any statement on theology.
Not only does it not explicitly contain any statement on theology,
but unlike the requirement to adhere to the methodologies of Algorithmic
Rationalism, it isn't even implicitly in there.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
That said - while this position of atheism is by no means an
extension of the One Sacrosanct of Algorithmic Rationalism,
we do believe it is the inevitable consequence of applying
it to the God question.
While terribly weak arguments for such a position (or even a more
extreme position) do in fact exist,
there are also some arguments for this position that are
quite solid, are firmly backed by the weight of the evidence
on the matter, and have sustained repeated checks.
It may be possible for someone to apply the One Sacrosanct
to the God question and a different answer - but it is
extremely unlikely if the dictates of logic, reason, and evidence
are truly followed in full.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
That said - we wish to avoid a situation in which
people blindly accept such an atheistic position simply
because the community says that it is so.
Also - even if we had incontrovertible proof that
any perfect rationalist would embrace this atheistic
position, we do not know anybody who is actually a
perfect rationalist.
Even the best of us are merely imperfect rationalists
working on ourselves toward the goal of perfection.
We would rather accept among us someone who genuinely
attempts to follow the One Sacrosanct but who due to
such imperfection lands on theism than someone who
blindly accepts atheism simply because that's what
the community says.
Someone who lands on theism due to such an imperfection
may have their theistic views challenged in the community
in the form of people pointing out issues that they might
have failed to consider - but they will be respected.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
There is, however, one more reason why atheism is not
a requirement for being regarded as an Algorithmic Rationalist.
This is because there may be some people who have truly
adopted Algorithmic Rationalism and are applying it to
many areas of their life - but who for some reason haven't
gotten around to, or simply aren't ready to apply it to the
God question.
They, too, are preferable to those who don't practice
Rationalism at all but accept atheism for some reason
other than logic, reason, or the weight of evidence.
</p>

</body>
</html>
