<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Training to overcome irrational biases</title>
<link href="../Styles/chapterstyle.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3>Training to overcome irrational biases</h3>

<p class = "head">
One key goal in Algorithmic Rationalism
is training ourselves to overcome our
irrational biases.
This is because no matter how much we
learn to understand the process of Rationality
in theory, and no matter how many exercises we
do to hone this faculty,
our irrational biases will constantly threaten
to interfere with the process,
and are liable to interfere without us even
consciously realizing that this has happened.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
It has been suggested that part of the
means by which to do this on matters of social
justice is to put yourself into the other person's
sues - a practice of Cognitive Empathy.
However, there is still the danger of our
irrational biases tricking us into thinking
that we have done this when in fact we haven't.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Overcoming your biases requires a lot
of skills that are best honed both with
exercises done on one's own and done
in a community of Algorithmic Rationalists.
We have to learn to check our biases -
and that means, recognizing when they
crop up, recognizing how they warp our
thoughts, and administering the appropriate
remedies to our thoughts.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
All this requires that we know about
the main viases that exist - and that
each of us knows to which biases we
are especially seceptible.
We must know the warning signs of
these biases - and we must develop
algorithms for helping us better
discern when one of these irrational
biases is affecting our thoughts.
</p>

<p class = "reg">
Very importantly, though, this process involves
training in the art of true open-mindedness,
which means, healthy skepticism of your own
beliefs, whatever they are, and a willingness
to modify them should evidence and reason
dictate that it is appropriate to do so.
</p>

</body>
</html>
